# Credit-Risk-Analytics-Active-Learning-in-Credit-Scoring

Credit scoring models are used to predict probability of default for loan applicants. Such models are trained on data from previously granted loans, where the repayment behaviour has been observed. The data from rejected applications is discarded. This creates sampling bias: the model is trained on accepted cases, which is not representative of the general population of borrowers. The bias deteriorates model's performance when the model is used to screen new applications.
This projekt investigates active learning as a potential solution to mitigate the sample bias problem in credit scoring. In active learning, a learning algorithm identifies unlabelled cases (i.e., rejected applications) that should be labelled (i.e., granted a loan) based on the expected impact on the machine learning model. Granting loans to risky customers is costly but may bring performance improvements due to gathering more representative training data. Comparing expected performance improvements and risks associated with issuing a loan, it is possible to identify applicants that should be granted credit to reduce the sample bias in the training data at the lowest possible cost. This study first employs various credit scoring models, including Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine, Naïve Bayes classifier, and Neural Networks. These models will be then investigated in the active learning process, where active learning scenarios such as Pool-Based and Stream-Based active learning scenarios with different learner strategies, namely Uncertainty Sampling, Density Weighting and Query By Committee, will be implemented. The sample for this study is the publicity real-world dataset of 50000 US mortgage borrowers, provided by International Financial Research (www.internationalfinancialresearch.org). The data is given as a “snapshot” in a panel format and represents a collection of US residential mortgage portfolios over 60 periods. We then evaluate the performance of each credit scoring model by using performance metrics including the accuracy and the AUC.

